Liz: My mom kind of
viewed people who are DeafBlind
as not being able to.
They were kind of just awkward about it.
And my mom kept on saying, “I can't”
That word: ‘I can’t’, you know...
it's just inappropriate.
I can have children.
[music plays]
When I was about 26 years old
and I first became pregnant,
and that was my first boy, Brian.
And we were all jumping for joy
that he was born.
But there were some problems that
popped up with my mother specifically.
Communication with her was a little dicey.
She wanted a little bit more control, I think,
of the situation and my baby.
She, of course, would appreciate
me giving her a grandchild.
But there was like this control element
that was happening
and things were getting messed up.
She was complaining a lot,
a lot of denial related to me having kids.
That was the issue.
[music plays]
The Mass Commission for the Blind
basically stated that I’m older than 22,
my parents don't need to be involved.
I can be independent and do what I want.
So I am not unfit and I have the right
to have a child.
I can have children and raise them.
It seems like my parents maybe they didn't
understand that fully when I was having children
because I'm DeafBlind and older than 22
I still have the same rights
as other people.
But most of our parents are hearing.
They don't understand DeafBlind people.
They don't understand the culture
and the community.
So when my son was with her growing up,
they didn't teach him sign language.
They didn't really care
about communication.
And that was a problem.
I wanted to know what
was going on with my son
while my mom had custody over him.
And she wasn't really good
at communicating with me
to let me know about the daily events
and things that were happening in his life.
And I felt very disconnected.
[music plays]
So I went to MCB,
and I asked them, you know,
“I need some help, I need some support.”
What can I utilize in the area?
And there was this new
mother’s class that was set up.
And I went there for about four years,
and I didn't give up.
I just kept going.
I kept persevering and
taking different classes with them
and learning more and more about parents
and how to raise children.
I had difficulties seeing,
but I had special equipment, like an alarm
that would let me know
that the baby's crying. It picks up
sound, and I would look for that.
And when I was changing the baby
or the baby was signing with me,
you know, I'd pay attention to the baby.
And as they grew up,
it became easier and easier.
I wasn't afraid.
When I had my second son
and I was pregnant, my mom really
didn't doubt me anymore or judge me.
The third child, the same thing,
didn't really have an issue either.
We had a happy little family.
It was better than in the past.
[music plays]
My first child is Brian.
He's my oldest.
He's 31 years old.
And my second child is Sean,
and they are about 20.
And my last daughter,
she's about 18 years old.
All three of them are hearing.
(music plays)
My daughter and my sons
they’d go in corn mazes with me,
we’d go on tractors, we’d go apple picking.
We’d go out to dinner.
And we’d go and actually meet my mother,
who's older and my older brother
and his girlfriend.
And we’d all get together
and it is was lot of fun.
Most parents who are hearing
they don't have deaf parents class, you know,
like raising children
that are deaf.
And in 1984 they set something up,
and that is more fair.
So hearing parents,
they have their own way of doing things.
But deaf parents, they need equality too.
[music ends]